# python-challenge
We have two parts to solve: 

1. PyBank Instructions
 
   In this Challenge, you are tasked with creating a Python script to analyze the financial records of your company. You will be given a financial dataset called budget_data.csv. The dataset is composed of two columns: "Date" and "Profit/Losses".

   Your task is to create a Python script that analyzes the records to calculate each of the following values:
   
   The total number of months included in the dataset

   The net total amount of "Profit/Losses" over the entire period

   The changes in "Profit/Losses" over the entire period, and then the average of those changes

   The greatest increase in profits (date and amount) over the entire period

   The greatest decrease in profits (date and amount) over the entire period
 
   Your analysis should align with the following results:

Financial Analysis
----------------------------
Total Months: 86
Total: $22564198
Average Change: $-8311.11
Greatest Increase in Profits: Aug-16 ($1862002)
Greatest Decrease in Profits: Feb-14 ($-1825558)
In addition, your final script should both print the analysis to the terminal and export a text file with the results.

Steps:
- read csv files with python script.
- define lists to store data
- loop - do all calculations
- print report
- write output to csv file

2. PyPoll Instructions
In this Challenge, you are tasked with helping a small, rural town modernize its vote-counting process.

You will be given a set of poll data called election_data.csv. The dataset is composed of three columns: "Voter ID", "County", and "Candidate". Your task is to create a Python script that analyzes the votes and calculates each of the following values:

The total number of votes cast

A complete list of candidates who received votes

The percentage of votes each candidate won

The total number of votes each candidate won

The winner of the election based on popular vote

Your analysis should align with the following results:

Election Results
-------------------------
Total Votes: 369711
-------------------------
Charles Casper Stockham: 23.049% (85213)
Diana DeGette: 73.812% (272892)
Raymon Anthony Doane: 3.139% (11606)
-------------------------
Winner: Diana DeGette
-------------------------

Steps:
- read csv files with python script.
- set vote counter to zero
- define lists to store data
- loop - do all calculations
- print all mentioned in the problem
- write output to csv file

Reference:
Data for this dataset was generated by edX Boot Camps LLC, and is intended for educational purposes only.
Chatgpt used to improve logic and generate sections of code.
Google to get syntax for adapting to my code.